# Associations

**Association** -- is the type of relation between two different products, where one in some kind of nature is dependent on, or can cause the other with regard to different marketing strategies, eg cross-cell, up-cell, related etc. 

Each Product can associate different products and can be associated from different product.

Associations can be activated or deactivated. Deactivated Associations cannot be used in the system. All the records of the Associated Products will not be transfered via any Channel.

## Association Fields

Entity Association comes with the following preconfigured fields, mandatory are marked with *:

| Field name               | Description                                          |
| ------------------------ |  ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Active                   | Activity state of the record                         |
| Name (multi-lang) *      | Association name, eg сross-selling                   |
| Description (multi-lang) | Description what this association should be used for |

If you want to make changes to the Association Entity, eg add new fields, or modify Association Views please contact your Administrator.

## Associations' List View

To open the Associations' List View click on the Associations in the Navigation Menu.

- By default the following fields are displayed on the List View for associations:
  - Name
  - Active
- To sort association records click any column title which is sortable. This will sort the column either ascending or descending. 
- To search or filter the association records, see the `UI/Search and Filtering` section of this user guide.
- To create new association record click on the `Create Association` button in the Upper right corner of the List View.
- To view the association record in a Detail View click on the name field value of the appropriated record (eg name field value).

### Mass Actions

- Remove --  Remove selected associations
- Mass Update --  Mass update of the selected  associations
- Export -- Export of the selected associations, you can export all fields or choose the fields to be exported.

### Single Record Actions

- View -- go to the detail view of the association record.
- Edit -- go to the detail view of the association record in the edit mode.
- Remove -- remove the association record.

## Association's Detail View

- Shows the associations records and the records of the related entities.

### Create or Edit Association

- Click Edit Button to edit the opened Association.
- Concent of Сompleteness is not applied to Associations.

### Remove Association

- Click on the Drop-Down section at the Main Action Button and select Remove to remove the record.
- Per Default it is not possible to remove association, if there is any product associated with this association.

### Duplicate Association

- Click on the Drop-Down section at the Main Action Button and select Duplicate to go to the Association Create View  in the Main Window and 
- Get all the values of the last chosen Association record copied in the empty fields of the new Association record to be created.

## Working with Associated Products

- Associated Products are related to Associations and are shown as a Small List View on each Association page.
- By default the following fields are displayed in the Small Detail View for related products:
  - Association
  - Main Product Name
  - Associated Product Name
- To create a new record for Associated Products from this View lick on the `+` icon in the upper right corner of the view.
- To remove the Product Association please click on the Remove in the Single Record Actions for the appropriate record.
- To edit the Product Association please click on the Edit in the Single Record Actions for the appropriate record.
- To unlink the product from the brand click on the Unlink in the Single Record Actions for the appropriate record.
- To view the product in the Quick View click on the View in the Single Record Actions for the appropriate record.

