# Product Families

**Product Family** -- is a grouping of similar products, which use similar or same production processes, have similar physical characteristics, and may share customer segments, distribution channels, pricing methods, promotional campaigns, and other elements of the marketing mix. In TreoPIM product families are used, to define a set of attributes that are shared by products belonging to a certain family, to describe the characteristics of these product. For each product family you can define, which attributes are mandatory and which are optional, so the system can calculate the completeness of you product content. You always need to set a product family before creating a new product. The Product can belong only to one product family. Examples of products families are: camera smartphone, shoes etc. 

One attribute can be used in several product families and  product family can have many attributes assigned. Each product can be assigned to only one product family.

Product families can be seen as "templates" for creating products with certain attributes quickly. By creating a new product product family is to be choosen and thus, all the attributes to describe this certain product will be automatically linked to the product so the user should decide to fill them or not.

The attributes linked to the product via product family can be unlinked from the product only if the product will be unlinked from the family or this attribute will be removed from the product family directly.

Product Families can be activated or deactivated. Deactivated Product Families cannot be used in the system.

## Product Family Fields

Entity Product Family comes with the following preconfigured fields, mandatory are marked with *:

| Field name           | Description                                                  |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Active               | Activity state of the Product Family                         |
| Name *               | Name of Product Family, i.e Tablets, Phones etc              |
| Copy Attributes from | Product Family which attributes should be also linked to the currect product family directly after the new product family is created (these still can be edited) |
| Description          | Description, what this Product Family should be used for     |

If you want to make changes to the Product Family Entity, eg add new fields, or modify Product Family Views please contact your Administrator.

## Product Families' List View

To open the Product Families' List View click on the Product Families in the Navigation Menu.

- By default the following product family fields are displayed on the List View for product families:
  - Name
  - Active
- To sort product family records click any column title which is sortable. This will sort the column either ascending or descending. 
- To search or filter the product family records, see the `UI/Search and Filtering` section of this user guide.
- To create new product family record click on the `Create Product Family` button in the Upper right corner of the List View.
- To view the product family record in a Detail View click on the main naming field value of the appropriated record (eg name field value).

### Mass Actions

- Remove --  Remove selected product families
- Mass Update --  Mass update of the selected product families
- Export -- Export of the selected product families, you can export all fields or choose the fields to be exported.

### Single Record Actions

- View -- go to the detail view of the product family record.
- Edit -- go to the detail view of the product family record in the edit mode.
- Remove -- remove the product family record.

## Product Family's  Detail View

### Create or Edit Product Family

- To create new Product Family click on the "Product Family" in the breadcrumb navigation to get to the Product Family List View and then click on the Button `Create Product Family`.


- To edit the opened Product Family click the Edit button.
- Per default by deactivating a Product Family all related products will be deactivated automatically.
- Per default if some Product Family is activated all the related products stays in the previous activity state without any changes.  To activate the products linked to this product family, please filter them by this Product Family and apply the appropriate mass action.
- By creating a new Product Family if the option "Copy Attributes from" is set, all the attributes linked to the choosen product family will be automatically linked to the new product family created.



### Remove Product Family

- Click remove to remove the record.
- ??? What happens while trying to remove Record, which have related records.

### Duplicate Product Family

- Click on the Drop-Down section at the Main Action Button and select Duplicate to go to the Product Family Create View in the Main Window and 
- get all the values of the last chosen Product Family record copied in the empty fields of the new Product Family record to be created.

## Working with Entities, related to Product Families

### Attributes

- On each Product Families page there is a Small List View of the attributes, linked to this Product Family.
- By default the following fields are displayed in the Small Detail View for related Attributes:
  - Attribute
  - Attribute Type 
  - Attribute Group
  - Required
  - Multi Channel
- Please set the "Required" checkbox, if the attribute should be required for the product family, if set this attribute is considered while calculating the completeness for the product description.
- Please set the "Multi Channel" checkbox, if the attribute should get a separate value for each channel.
- <!-- що буде з товарами у яких є задані значення атрибуту якщо видалити цей атрибут з product family ??? -->
- <!-- що буде зі значеннями атрибуту для товарів, якщо цей атрибут помітити як мультіченел ??? -->
- If a new attribute is linked to a product family, this attribute is automatically linked to all products, which belongs to the selected product family. 
- To create a new attribute from this View click on the `+` icon in the upper right corner of the view.
- To link already existing attribute with the selected Product Family, use the select icon in the upper right corner of the view. 
  - Then in the Popup Window choose one or more attributes, you to want to assign to this Product Family and click on the Select Action Button. 
- To edit the attribute please click on the Edit in the Single Record Actions for the appropriate record.
- To unlink the attribute from the Product Family click on the Unlink in the Single Record Actions for the appropriate record.
- Click on the attribute name, to be redirected to Detail Page of the selected attribute.
- Click on the attribute group name, to be redirected to Detail Page of the selected attribute group name.

### Products

- Click on the product name, to be redirected to Detail Page of the selected Product.
- By default the following fields are displayed in the Small Detail View for related Products:
  - Product Name
  - SKU
  - Type
  - Active
- To create a new attribute from this View click on the `+` icon in the upper right corner of the view.
- To link already existing Product with the selected Product Family, use the select icon in the upper right corner of the view. 
  - Then in the Popup Window choose one or more attributes, you to want to assign to this Product Family and click on the Select Action Button. 
  - <!-- що буде з атрибутами товару і їх значеннями якщо тут вибрати продукт, який до цього був доданий до іншої product family ??? -->
- To remove the product from the system please click on the Remove in the Single Record Actions for the appropriate record.
- To edit the product please click on the Edit in the Single Record Actions for the appropriate record.
- To unlink the product from the Product Family click on the Unlink in the Single Record Actions for the appropriate record.
- To view the product in the Quick View click on the View in the Single Record Actions for the appropriate record.


